                             pyUHBD README

                           Michael J. Harms
                        B. Garcia-Moreno E. Lab
                      The Johns Hopkins University
                            January 30, 2007
                               v 1.0.0

pyUHBD is a python wrapper that performes single-site finite difference contiuum
electrostatics calculations on pdb files using the University of Houston
Brownian Dynamics (UHBD) package.

Environment:
    NOTE: This script *REQUIRES* Python 2.3 or later!

    The system must have a valid compile of UHBD that is user executable.
    pyUHBD finds the location of this directory through the $UHBD environment
    variable.  Specifically, pyUHBD calls the following binaries:
        uhbd (single site, full)
        prepares (single site)
        getgrids (single site), getgrid (full)
        doinps (single site), doinp (full)
        getpots (single site), getpot (full)
        hybrids (single site), hybrid (full)

    To run addH, the system must have a CHARMM binary.  Set the CHARMM
    environment variable to the directory containing the binary and the
    CHARMM_LIB environment variable to the directory containing the .rtf and
    .prm files.


Input files:
    The main file required by pyUHBD is a pdb file with hydrogens.  Such a file
    can be created using addH.  There is a difference between the hydrogens
    added for full or single-site calculations, so make sure that you specify
    the correct option for addH.  The program will run with only a pdb file
    (or set of pdb files) specified, but many other options can be chosen from
    the command line (type pyUHBD -h for a list).  *NOTE*: Your pdb *MUST* have
    a header line or the calculation will be silently mangled by the old fortran
    code.  Something to fix for the next release.

    Some options require input files.  In most cases, these files can simply a
    list of numbers separated by whitespace (spaces, tabs, character returns).
    All lines beginning with "#" are treated as comments and ignored.  Two
    notable exceptions are -g (grid) which requires a grid specification in
    proper uhbd format:
        1.5 65 65 65
        1.0 40 40 40
        ... (up to five grids)
    and -o (override), which requires a properly formatted uhbd input file.

    The user can also choose which parameter file to use (-a --parameter-file).
    This is particularly important for full calculations.  When the user
    specifies a parameter file, the program will first look in the calling
    directory.  If the file is not there, it will look in pyUHBD/parameters.  If
    it cannot find the file, the program will die.

Output:
    Output from a pyUHBD calculation is saved in a directory based on the pdb
    file input:
        pdb_root/[single | full]/D[dielectric constant]/[ionic strength]/output
    The code does not perform any checks for previously performed calculations,
    so make sure you don't aren't going to wipe out a previous calculation when
    you set up a run.

Outstanding Issues:
    This code will not put on terminii or deal with multi-chain pdb files.  This
    feature will be added in the next round.
